hey everyone it's neil patel and today
is another day of sierra unlocked where
we go over how you can improve your
conversion rates this lesson is on best
practices part two if you missed best
practices part one go to neilpatel.com
training
and click on cro
unlocked and there you'll find the
introduction video as well as best
practices part one
today we're going to be breaking down
how to use crazy to increase your
conversion rate
so just a quick overview you can monitor
visitor interactions through different
software with crazy egg you can create a
snapshot of your page and as your page
changes you can see how visitors
interact with different variations of
your site so you can improve your
conversion rates and get a better
understanding how people truly interact
with your website
so how do you use snapshots well you can
choose a variety of advanced choices
while making a snapshot you can pick the
system
form to monitor let's say desktop mobile
or even tablet you can determine the
expiration time of when you want to stop
tracking and this will give you all
example and data on all right let's see
how people interact on mondays or
throughout this week or throughout this
specific promotion period like black
friday and that'll help you better
understand here's how people interact
during these specific times
and snapchats are really important
because as you make changes you can see
again how visitor interactions change
specifically on different devices like
if you do a redesign or a new landing
page design so that way you can see did
you your change was it good overall or
bad
and another element within crazy is heat
maps
a heat map is something that shows you
where people click and engage on your
site and i'll show you an example of
this in a little bit on the next slide
and this tool helps you evaluate and
analyze how people engage within your
site it's a graphical representation of
all the places users clicked on your
website whether it's a link or a dead
click or they're just reading and
they're clicking around on your text you
can see that all within a heat map so
here's the example of a heat map for
mobile devices on the neopatel.com
website
now this data can help you better
redesign your website decrease your
bounce rates have less drop-offs
improve your overall user experience so
that way you can get more sales and seo
is also
encompassing user experience and how
users interact with your site google
wants to make sure that they're just not
ranking sites that have more links or
better on-page seo but they want to rank
sites that have the best user experience
as well
so how do you analyze heat maps well
we've covered a little bit but some few
tips for you make sure that your call to
actions are being seen and they're being
clicked on if you're noticing that no
one's really looking at them or clicking
on them you can change the placement
place the content in the order of
importance to your users just don't
place content however you want if
certain parts of your content more
important than others make sure they're
placed in the right areas where people
see them
and track what's going on behind pop-ups
or forms or login screens as well so
that way you can optimize the whole
experience instead of just a little bit
of it
and set up a conversion process or pages
for success so that way you can truly
win
i have a workbook for you you can find
it at neilpatel.com slash training click
on crl unlocked week one it's the second
lesson in there and there's a guide on
heat mapping i want you to download it
it'll help you understand how you can
analyze heat maps run them so that way
you can get the most out of your website
then there's a scroll map within crazy
app and a scroll map is what it sounds
like it shows you what percentage of
your users scroll where and it's not
what you always think people always say
oh people just don't scroll down and
they just view the top part well
sometimes they actually view parts in
the middle more than they do at the top
because not just how long they're
scrolling it's also how much attention
they're putting on those elements and
the scroll map tracks all of that so
it'll give you an idea of where you need
to place your most important elements in
essence what are the hottest elements on
your web page and what do you need to be
placing in there and that's what a
scroll map can help you with
with crazy egg you can easily see what
aspects of your website are distracting
users versus which ones are causing them
to drive more revenue and sales or leads
for you you can see how individuals are
directed by different campaigns to your
website and how they act based on those
campaigns
you can see whether it's from paid ads
or email or seo you can segment all your
traffic within crazy egg and see how
different audiences interact with your
web pages differently so then you can
create different experiences for let's
say the paid users versus the organic
users
and here's an example of scrolled up the
most viewed section of a page is just
above the fold at roughly 550 pixels
with 80 viewership most visitors scroll
before the page loads completely
and the portion of the page just above
the fold is nearly seen by all the
visitors now this doesn't mean that you
should just put your call to actions
above the fold because sometimes you got
to educate and get them a little bit
more information before you try selling
them on anything
you need also look at the engagement
across your whole site and your whole
page not just above the fold
for example the engaged time it peaks
roughly just below the fold that means a
lot of people are spending a lot of
their time scrolling and looking at the
elements right underneath the fold so
you need to really pay attention to what
you're putting right beneath the fold
and pixels at the top are viewed for
about four seconds the amount of viewing
time increases to peak by about 1 200
pixels down in essence the people are
scrolling more tend to be more engaged
and you need to figure out what elements
you need to place within those peak
elements so that way you can maximize
your revenue
then there's also the confetti and
overlay reports in crazy egg
confetti is just like it looks on the
right side it's all these dots in
different colors and the dots represent
different traffic sources and you can
segment it heck you can even segment it
by day by time by weekend versus weekday
being versus google you can literally
segment your traffic by all the
different variations to see what you
need to do to improve your conversion
rates do people click on buttons or are
they clicking on elements that aren't
really clickable and they're confused
these are all things that you can fix
and tweak the overlay on crazy egg the
cool part about that and you just click
on the overlay button in the navigation
it shows the exact number and the
percentage of clicks to each and every
single element all you need to do is
click the plus marker next to any
clickable feature and the way your
guests view your website is generally
different from how you expected it to be
so i recommend that you run an overlay
report on crazier my favorite part about
the overlay is i can see the dead zones
the other clicks these are the elements
that they're clicking on that aren't
really clickable that you need to fix so
that way you have a better user
experience almost every sites have these
just as website owners and marketers we
tend not to think that people are
clicking on them but they really are
then you have the list report this just
gives you a list of every single element
in a tabulated format so you can see a
breakdown of what people are clicking
and what they're not whether it's
visible or not visible you can see that
within the list table and you just look
at the not visible or both or the
visible and i recommend that you check
them all out so again that way you can
figure out percentage-wise what's
getting a lot of clicks that's
necessarily not visible that you need to
fix and change so that way you can
improve the user experience one of my
favorite features of the list report is
anytime that you click on a specific
element in the list report it actually
brings up the overlay report so you know
what it is and how people are engaging
and using that specific element or
clicking or experience on your site
you can also run tests with crazier you
can run a lot of a b tests and testing
is a continuous process you always need
to iterate and improve testing is ideal
method for assessing and iterating so
that way you can get early wins saves
you both time and money you don't want
to just make tests based on what you
think is going to win you want to do it
based on
what the data is showing you and we'll
dive more into that next week when we go
into the second week of cro unlocked so
if you're wondering how often you should
run tests well it depends on your niche
your industry and how many conversions
you have if you have a lot of
conversions like i do you can usually
run one to two tests a week if you don't
sometimes you may be able to run one or
two tests a month and again it really
depends on your niche as well as how
many conversions you have but don't
worry about how often you can run tests
just more so run them and if you do that
you'll continually improve your revenue
over time so how do you optimize your
site over time again you need to do
tests and analyze your results you need
to feed data into crazy egg you need to
use data to drive growth you need to
drive more leads sales and customers and
just go and try to sign up for crazy egg
they have a free trial
and go run a few tests and it breaks
down how to actually do this with the
overlaying confetti and just goes
through it it has a wysiwyg that's
really easy to use and go through this
onboarding process it's again a free
trial and then you'll start collecting
data so you know what you need to
optimize there's this thing that's also
called heuristic analysis where you
think about how people are engaging with
your overall site and what you need to
do from a ux interaction design
standpoint to improve everything
and it's the evolution of cro and that's
where people are going it's not just
based on oh what button color should i
use or what text it's about how do you
improve the experience for people
and if you do that that's how you win in
the long run i also have a checklist for
you you can find at neilpatel.com
training click on crm locked it is under
week one it's a second lesson under week
one and you can find the checklist there
make sure you download it
and you'll learn how to deal with web
design interaction different elements
and unlock just a very usable workflow
if you have any questions leave a
comment below if you want to email us
you can email us at support
neilpatel.com if you just want my team
to do all the cro stuff for you check
out my ad agency np digital stands for
neil patel digital
and thank you for watching and thank you
for your time i really look forward to
helping you get more conversions from
your site